Name: Kyra McCandless
utln: kmccan06

Answer the questions below, and submit your answers under the assignment
"MetroSim Design Checkoff" on Gradescope. You must sign up for a design
checkoff slot with a TA to discuss your provided answers (see spec for link).

Unless otherwise specified, your answers below should be *brief*: no more
than three sentences/question.

        
1. Are you comfortable with reading from stdin (user input) and a text file 
in C++? Are you comfortable reading different types (e.g. ints and strings)?
For this one, don't just answer 'yes' if you are. Write out which data 
types you will need and which functions you will call. 

Answer: I am comfortable enough with these topics, and I there are resources
that I can use to review. I will need to read in characters to recognize user
commands ('m' then either 'm' for move or 'f' for finish, and 'p' to add a
passenger). I will also need to read in characters for the adding passenger
feature to detect which station the passenger arrives at and departs from.

2. What happens when I move the train (with 'm m') when the train is at the
last provided station? 

Answer: The train "circles" around back to the very first station and repeats
the entire process all over again. This is how passengers can arrive at
station numbers greater than the ones they depart to.

3. What classes will you need in your program? What interfaces (i.e. 
functions) do they each provide? 

Answer: I will need the Passenger class with getId(), getStartingStation(),
getEndingStation(), and print(std::ostream &output), the PassengerQueue class
with enqueue(const Passenger &passenger), dequeue(), front(), size(), and
print(std::ostream &output), and I also plan to implement a Train class with
the public move() function that calls many private functions such as
board(int stationNum), unload(int stationNum), as well as a print(std::ostream
&output).

4. How will you implement add a passenger to a station? How will this 
impact the data structure(s) you use to represent the stations in the 
simulation? 

Answer: Adding a passenger to a station is the equivalent of a pushAtBack to the
end of a list. So, I will represent the stations as a doubly linked list with a
back pointer, which the std::list class is. This way adding to the back of the
line at a station and removing from the front of the line are both efficient.

5. How will you implement moving a train from one station into the next? 
How will you put passengers onto the train? How will you take off the
correct passengers who are leaving at the next station? How will these 
considerations impact the data structure(s) you use to represent the 
train in the simulation? 

Answer: As I mentioned earlier, I plan to implement a Train class and have a
public move() function that calls many helper functions, including board(int
stationNum) and unload(int stationNum). Board will take all of the Passengers
at stationNum and add them to the PassengerQueue that represents the Passengers
on the train, and unload will search the Passengers on the train for the ones
that are departing at stationNum, removing them from the front. Since I will be
doing a lot of adding to the back and removing from the front, an std::list,
which is implemented as a doubly linked list will be most efficient for the
O(1) pushAtFront and popFromBack functionalities.

6. Does command behavior change based on the source of commands? 
Based on your answer, how could we modularize our command processing
code? Be as detailed as you can.

Answer: There is no difference in command behavior based on the source of the
commands. The only change I would have to make is to read input from a file
instead of an input stream. To do this, I will have two separate query methods,
one for reading input from the user and one fror reading input from a file.
For the file reading one, I will open the fstream before calling the function
and close it after and pass it by reference so that I can continue reading from
the same spot on the file.

7. How do you plan to test your program? What evidence of testing do
you plan to submit? 

Answer: I plan to test my program using the provided unit_tests.h resource.
As suggested in the project spec, I will make my private funtions temporarily
public to test them and then comment out the tests when I am done, leaving them
as evidence of my testing. I also plan to write many test input files, run my
program and the reference on them using redirection, and then check for errors
using diff.

8. What is your timeline for completing this project? What would you like 
to have completed, and by which dates?   

Answer: I am all about starting projects early and submitting them many times,
so I plan to have the Passenger and PassengerQueue files (Phase 1) written,
tested, and submitted by Sunday morning to give me over a week to work through
the rest of the implementation and catch any edge cases that slipped by on
my first attempt at Phase 1.